I can't believe all of you are falling for Adam.dev's layervel scam.
Oh, my God.
He clicks away to you with the stream title say you're going to build a project with
layervel and just talking about layervel never does any layer.
I hate that that's accurate.
I hate that it's true because I'm not scamming.
I'm not.
So many people think I'm trolling.
I'm really not.
I'm actually excited about layervel.
Why would I troll about that?
It's like a fantastic community.
It's amazing technology.
You're doing it again.
You're again, just talking about it and not actually doing.
I've actually done some layervel, just not on stream yet, okay?
I've built the starter project, okay?
It was a lot of CLI commands.
It was a lot of CLI commands or one CLI command because you have to MPM install because nothing
can escape the grasp of MPM and JavaScript.
So if it were for that, it would just be a couple that you got to build your front end
assets or whatever.
I don't know.
You're not one of those people that just clones a starter thing and then starts talking
about a technology.
Okay.
I'm not.
But in this case that maybe one of them, no, but but I'm not that kind of person.
It doesn't define me.
One, one action does not define my person.
I agree, but I'm just saying technically speaking, that is a bullet point when you're
being judged later.
It's true that I did not actually alter the starter project in any way.
Not any meaningful way.
I did change the markup a little bit just to see that it doesn't have hot reloading, which
we should talk about that.
Taylor, we should talk about what JavaScript developers expect.
Now that there's a flood of JavaScript developers flooding into the PHP and layervel world,
we need to set some expectations.
We expect when we make a change in the file and we save it, it just automatically updates
in the browser.
It's just an expectation.
It's all we've got really JavaScript is hell on earth and this full stack JavaScript stuff.
If we're going to have a deal with all that, at least we can save a file and see it immediately
reflected in the in the browser.
That's all we got.
I'm sure they're really happy that you're in this, you're in their space now.
I wonder actually, I wonder how much there's people like with some consternation.
Why did I use that word?
I wonder how many people are like a little upset and a little nervous about JavaScript
boys showing up into their very adult community.
There's no drama.
Yeah, I was messaging about this.
You were like, Oh man, layer of else of this peaceful paradise.
Okay, everyone go run into it.
That's so true.
What have I done?
I'm going to be the person that took down the layer of our community and brought all the
JavaScript people to it.
Oh no.
Have you ever used it?
So I've done even less than you, but I've like read every word.
I don't know if it's possible.
I don't know if it's possible if you've done less than me, but you've read every word
of the docs.
Why?
Because one, it just says like, because I work on a framework and I, they're like kind
of a gold standard in a lot of ways.
So just because I want to understand how to do their docs, how they structured it, but
also like how everything works.
Because I think in terms of like what primitives do people need, it like sets a nice bar on
here's a list of everything you need, and you have these you can directly build most
things.
Yeah.
So yeah, I just want to understand all that worked and how they organize stuff.
Big question I always have is, you know, you have to separate your concerns somehow and
some applications separate them by what the thing is like all your events go here, all
your data models go here, all your whatever goes here, or you separate them by like business
concerns, like all your user stuff goes here, all your to do stuff goes, et cetera.
So yeah, that was kind of research and we kind of constantly refer back to it.
And they do they do the, the not the business, see you way, right?
They do like actions and controllers, they have folders like that.
Yeah, which is different than where I do the, I usually do the other thing, like to have,
if I'm working on user stuff, like to see like all the events and all the database models
and everything all in one place, but yeah, just kind of looking at their approach, understand
like if it's better, like when it's better, when it's worse.
So this would be a good exercise for me because I'd like to hear all the, like I'm very enamored.
I'm in that early honeymoon phase where I just love everything about this, everything
I'm seeing about Laravel.
But I know there's trade offs because everything in technology is trade offs.
So you're helping me, you can help me kind of understand if you've read all the docs.
One thing, one big question I have is like, what is the performance story?
Because I've heard a lot of people come at me now on Twitter, since I declared my love
publicly for Laravel about how slow it is and PHP so slow.
Is it really, has anyone actually done the benchmarks?
I wouldn't be surprised if no one's actually done the benchmarks, but that's the thing.
Yeah.
It just comes on here.
The thing I always say is like your speed is really never about your language.
It's usually about your architecture, like, because it's not about the benchmarks really.
It's about how people feel when they're using your app.
So what kind of database are you using, like what kind of strategies are you using with
the database?
I'm sure you can have a Laravel app that feels effective.
I imagine it's a little bit harder, just because some of the JavaScript tools are a little bit
more integrated for the stuff that makes things feels fast, but I'm sure you can make
it feel fast.
But on a technical basis, yes, it is slower, which means you're going to pay a little bit
more the language itself.
The language itself.
If I had a page, and this is what I'd like to do, I'd like to take some sample app that's
got some kind of like SSR scenario where you have to fetch some data from a database and
then render the page.
I'd like to create that app with Next.js server components, and I'd like to create it with
Laravel, and I'd like to like time it.
Can we do that?
Is that an exercise that I could do?
Is it slower, like time differs by just generating a page?
Yeah, but you have to like test adequate things like you have to, so you know how in JavaScript
you can easily do two requests at once because of the like event loop, like it'll kick off
the narrow requests, do some of the work stuff and all that stuff.
I don't, I just don't know enough about PHP to understand, does it, one does it have that?
Is it 100% like does it have this concept of like asynchronous IO, right?
This stuff historically mattered a lot more when a single container server, whatever was
handling a lot of requests, but these are all deployed to Lambda function.
So it's not like needs to handle a hundred requests at once, but within the context of
a single request, you know, how, how much parallel work can it do?
Yeah, I don't know the answer to these things, but it is a simpler language and I imagine
that it doesn't have some of these optimizations, which is what keeps it simple.
Yeah.
Okay.
Are there other downsides I'm overlooking?
Is the type system thing?
I guess people who are really big into type safety, I mean, you as someone that has been
doing a bunch of in TypeScript and is using TypeScript language, TypeScript libraries,
you might find like it feel, you might feel like it's like a slide backwards.
The other thing that I didn't get to when we're talking about the other day is the diversity
thing.
But it does show up in some places, like, so for me, I hate class based doing things
by classes.
I hate modeling everything as a class.
I love having like typed objects and passing them around to functions.
Like I just my background, if I shift to the Laravel world, like just can't do functional
stuff as much in the JavaScript world, there's a lot of people that use classes.
That's fine.
But there's also people like me that don't.
So yeah, there's certain styles that maybe you're willing to give up, maybe you want to
shift, but in exchange for all this stuff you get.
But I think for me, there's like a few things that keep me away from it.
It's really just a type to some end, just a class oriented nature of everything.
Okay.
I'm still going down this path.
You didn't dissuade me.
No, I'm not trying to persuade you.
I'm going to try it.
I'm going to build something.
Yeah, you are.
Of course you are.
I was just trying to pop my balloon, Dax, I get all excited.
I'm easily excited.
I guess that's probably the problem, but then you always just want to pop my balloon.
I'm not doing anything.
You're going through your own roller coaster emotional journey right now.
Dax, you just sent me a tweet that you wrote this morning that's popping, literally popping
my bubble.
It's not literally.
Wait, what do you mean?
What do you do?
You just you denied it, but you just you sent me the tweet.
You told me that you wrote this tweet and you you're talking about how I'm scamming.
I'm not actually into Laravel.
If anything, that's encouraging you to prove me wrong and it's fair because I am feeling
a little more motivated now.
Don't blame all your problems on on other people.
Maybe look inwards.
Is that a valid criticism?
Was that real?
I can't tell if that's like the truth about it is not real.
Okay.
We've got that point in our relationship where I don't have the time.
I don't know if we're being serious or if we're joking.
Okay.
What's on your mind?
I just said a lot of stuff about Lara, though.
What is on my mind?
I've been yesterday helping rocks with the thing he's working on, which has been kind
of interesting.
And I may whole mention today he's kind of doing something very similar.
As I think we've talked about a bunch where if you just learn some of these tools, you
can make things life a lot easier for yourself.
So the thing that rocks is doing, I think you're trying my Laravel, right?
If we just learn.
No, no.
I'm not.
We're not helping with this.
Nice try.
Good try.
He has this, he's trying to build this tool that people upload videos and extracts frames
that you could potentially use for thumbnails for that video on YouTube.
So frames where there's a person's face and they're excited, et cetera.
And it turns out there is literally an AWS service that does exactly this.
I think you've actually played with this already.
It's like within an hour, I was able to kind of recreate the exact pipeline that he wanted,
which is basically core of his application.
Yeah.
And I think for him, the version he made also didn't take him that long, but the difference
is this approach, once it's done, it's done forever.
It doesn't matter.
We're doing one video a day, a thousand videos a day, we don't ever worry about deploying.
And I think he was kind of in this constant cycle of like, where do I host?
How do I deploy it?
Like what are my options?
So it kind of removes all those concerns and it was nice to see that.
That said, there is a reality of stuff that's using this kind of thing, which is the results
were not amazing.
I think they were still there.
I think they were roughly the same as his results, but I think the ceiling to improve,
to get to do exactly what you want is lower because like you're kind of cooperating within
the realm of what AWS supports, like you'd want to skip frames that have text on it because
you don't want like random text in your video.
Yep.
And it can't like also do text analysis at the same time.
So there is some rigidity, but the next level down is still like very managed and very serverless,
like seeing as it sees the long learning jobs to kind of do your own custom logic, as opposed
to like, you know, deploying on a railway server and then it's overloaded and I spent
up another one and like managing all that.
It's just a lot, especially for someone that like does not want to focus so much on the
infrastructure stuff and do these other things.
So yeah, then Mayhol is doing something very similar and I'm like, can I just do a whole
thing where I just like rebuild indie hackers, projects in like my setup, and then I basically
do the napkins for everyone.
Yeah, I would love to see like all of the just the example repos for these use cases,
because you just obviously think so fluently in SST that you're going to come up with like
the best way to do it so quickly on AWS and yeah, you could turn them out so quickly.
So I don't know how we make this worth it for you, but I mean, it's not marketing.
Yeah, everything is a sea marketing, like it would be funny if like the end result of
each of these things was just like an API with a very specific command just for these
people's projects.
It's like, I just have like a hundred single customer API is that I whipped up in a day.
Did you actually give it to rocks to like run on this?
He got to create his own AWS account. Did you actually get rocks to create an AWS account?
Or are you hosting it for him?
No, because again, this I can just run it on mine and I'll just send him the bill.
Oh, for real. You're going to like, you're just running it in your state.
I was like, I was like, if you just pay me two X to bill, I'll do it.
This is awesome.
If he's ever like naturally successful, I'm going to be twice as successful.
So I don't know if that works that way twice. You wouldn't be twice as you just be twice
the the spend anyway.
Yes.
Okay.
So I want to see this code. I want to see recognition also does like the sharpness,
right?
If you're building something like that for like making thumbnails, which that's what
he's doing, right?
He'd want to know like, these are the best frames of this expression or something, but
it's not very good, you said?
No, no. So, okay. So my algorithm, my crazy algorithm I wrote in nine minutes yesterday,
basically, it's actually funny because the data that recognition gives you gives you
a lot of stuff back.
So obviously, I was like, okay, score it by how happy they look, how surprised they look,
but also by how much their eyes are open and how open their mouth is and how much they're
smiling and how bright the video is and how short you guys do.
Perfect YouTube clip.
The first, like, I first I just did happy and surprised and the results were like kind
of okay. And then the more I added like all of those things, they like pretty much got
the right clips, the right frames. The only issue is if within a one second window, if
there's like one frame with text over it and one frame without text over it, like it might
have just picked the one with text on it. So yeah, I'm trying like there's probably like
two other alternatives I can build. Again, I could probably both those alternatives I
can probably build within a day as well. And it's just like the initial effort is pretty
small, but then like the time saved over time is like insane. Just never have to worry about
it again.
It's kind of hits on that whole serverless as a spectrum conversation. I mean, just like
thinking about, yeah, okay, so it's a managed service, this Amazon recognition, he can only
go so far with it, then he's got to go lower level, but he doesn't have to go to a virtual
machine where he's installing everything on it. And like, that's too far down. There's
there's things in between. It's a gradient.
Yeah, yeah, I think people do see as binary, but it really isn't. There's like so many
stops, stops on the way. And even even like if you're going to run a container, it's also
like more serverless place on a container, right?
Yeah, right. You've got to do this next because the indie hacker crowd, if anyone should be
using serverless, it's perfect for indie hacking. Like, indie hacking to me implies you don't
have any money and you're working alone, and you're going to just rough something together
quickly. And to me, serverless, like start with no costs. It'll grow as your your thing
grows. I don't know. Is it not a perfect use case? Do you do you have the opposite take?
I feel like that look, I think it is. It's just the, I think the mentality when the indie
hacking space is like, don't learn stuff because that's a waste of time. You might not you
might not need it.
I have so many problems with indie hacking as a concept. But it's like, it's like, it's
not learn nothing. Just learn like one thing and then maybe you don't need to learn a bunch
of other stuff.
Yeah, I don't know why it bothers me. I feel like they should all just rebrand. They need
a a new public relations person. Maybe I'll take over. Maybe I'll become an indie hacker.
Yeah, you become. Yes. Okay. Do it. And just funnel them all into SST. It's just one big
marketing funnel.
Yeah, except, you know, that will make SST like dozens of dollars. Yeah, that's the best
strategy for us. Oh, it's a funny thing you've ever said. It's funny because I posted about
this, but just being in, I think maybe I've been messaging you about this, but just being
in this Twitter bubble where everyone's like at the beginning of projects, like very, very
small projects and we're always like trying to get something off the ground. When I was
at React Miami, someone came over and they were like, Hey, like, you know, our company
uses SST. That's awesome. Like what what's your company do? There's some oil and gas
related company in Kansas City or somewhere around Kansas City that makes like $4 billion
a year. And they had they were like, Oh, yeah, you know, we just moved 200 engineers to using
SST every single day. I'm just like, wait, what? What? They have 200 engineers? Yeah,
it's just like, and then all of them are just using SST and they're using it every day.
And they're like, and then we're on Twitter or our Discord talking. And he's like, wow,
you know, worst case scenario, if everything fails, I'm just going to go work for this
company, you know, yeah, there you go. They need to keep you some SST. Yeah. And like, you
know, it's just so I think there's just like this whole spectrum of these giant usages
of it that we just don't really don't really come across directly. That's where for us,
you know, all the opportunity is because if we build a nice product for them, you know,
they're going to pay, they can pay a lot for it. So sorry, indie hacking crowd, just don't
have the deep pockets. You guys can pay me back and making videos praising me.
There you go. That's a strategy. I do the real world thing. I think the Twitter bubble
is so real. I realize how much my perception of everything in the world is warped through
Twitter. Like this company that I would never know existed that has 200 software engineers.
But like everything we talk about on Twitter is about these tiny little startups that are
really just dropping the bucket and the grand scheme of things.
Yeah, in my head, there's like, oh, there's like four companies out there that could employ
me. That's like my perception of the world, but like there's like thousands of companies
with like hundreds of engineers. Dark matter devs, the majority of devs in industry, but we don't
see them. That's true. There's millions that that phrase that's from Scott Hanselman,
you started your career in dot net, right? Yeah. You know, Scott Hanselman? Don't I think
you don't know Scott Hanselman? Yeah, of course. Yeah. Why didn't you say that when I said Scott
Hanselman? You should have been like, Oh, Scott. Yeah. Scott making you feel awkward. Okay. Well,
it worked because I had to do all that whole thing. So Scott Hanselman wrote the article,
Dark Matter devs, 10 years ago, 15 years ago, it's been a long time. That actually kind of
started my well, this was the early early days for Adam in content. I made a blog because of that
one article, Adam and more dot net. I wrote one blog post. It's so me in retrospect. It's so me.
I wrote one blog post about my home office because I had this amazing home office. It's still again,
it's so me wrote one blog post. I was going to be a blogger. And then Scott Hanselman put it in his
newsletter. He put a link to my blog posts. And it was the beginning. I was on a trajectory like
no other and then I fell back down, did nothing to me. And yeah, dark matter dumps. I'll never
forget that though. So when somebody says that, what is what is the concept that he wrote about?
Oh, you really don't know? No, I've never, I don't know. I know who he is. I don't know that.
Do you know what dark matter is? Yeah. Well, that trick question. Nobody knows. Nobody knows what
dark matter is. Dev. What do you know, the secrets of the universe? So dark matter. You call me Dev.
What? That calls you Dev. I meant that. I don't know why I would do that. I don't interact with
Dev on the phone. So if you don't know what dark matter is, dark matter, like the whole known
universe, everything we know, like the atoms, all the elements on the periodic table, all the stuff
that makes up stars and clouds of dust and planets and all that. That's matter. Dark matter,
there's six times more of it. We know nothing about it. We can't measure it in any way. We've
never actually perceived it. We just see effects on gravity. Okay. So like, it's like scaffolding
that holds up the galaxies or something. I don't know. We can see like on the outer bands of galaxies,
the impact, why am I talking about astrophysics? How did we get into this? I don't know anything
about astrophysics. I know more about Laravel than I know about astrophysics. I'm going to keep going.
It's not where you know more about astrophysics. I've listened to a lot of physics books.
So we see like the effects on like stars on the outer bands of galaxies. We see these weird effects
on gravity that don't make sense unless there's like a lot of mass, but there's nothing. We don't
see it. It's dark matter. That's dark matter. And the point of the blog post that Scott wrote,
and apparently some of the adjacent also calls it dark matter, dark matter devs are the 99%
of developers who aren't online. They don't have a public presence. You can't see them.
But they're out there writing code happily every day. They work at their oil and gas companies.
But they're not on Twitter. They're not making YouTube videos. That's the dark matter developers.
It's this tiny little sliver that are like active on Twitter and talk every day and think
the JavaScript matters and all that. That's the idea. Yeah. I'm familiar with that concept because
my dad's a software engineer and he definitely was in that category. Dark matter. He wasn't on
Twitter. Nope. And none of the technologies he's worked with even come up, but you know,
they powered massive amounts of money moving around. So yeah, you never hear from them again,
because they are too busy. Yeah, they're too busy. Exactly. I think the amount of activity on social
media is inversely proportionate. Am I saying words that make sense? Inversely, inversely proportionate
to the amount that you're getting actually done. Does that sentence make sense?
Sure. If you spend more time on social media, the more active, it's just so funny. I do like,
I'm still straddling this fence of the worlds of like being a person who talks about software
development and being someone who actually does software development. I feel like I'm straddling
that line. Why are you looking at me like that, Dax? I feel like you've had an attitude, okay?
We've got to talk about your attitude. I'm not listening to me. I was looking at your face,
listening to you. What? I don't think you're looking at my face, but that's fine. You don't
have a teleprompter, do you? I'm actually looking at your face. You're looking somewhere else.
So you're upset because I'm not using a teleprompter. I have a teleprompter. I'm just not using it.
Why are she using it? I just like, I can't find the right place to put it where it's kind of not
annoying in the way. Okay, I was trying to say the word smirk and I said snark and smark. You missed
it. You were talking. This is going fantastic. I was going somewhere. So I was, I'm still on the
fence on whether I want to be someone who talks about this stuff on the internet. How are you on
the fence? I'm on the fence. I don't know. Do I want to do this? I might just quit. One of these
days, they actually are going to be like, where'd Adam go? And I'm just not going to show up again
on special matter. My point of view, you're not on the fence. You're like deep in it. Deep in which
side getting stuff done or deep in the way. You're saying I'm deep in the in the world of talking
about stuff. I'm not saying that's all you do, but I'm saying, I feel like you're definitely
committed. We're literally talking to each other on a podcast. I know anyone can have a podcast.
Anyone can just start recording their voice. I'm saying that, you know, it sounds like you
like doing this and you're committed to doing more of it. Are you still you're like, what about that?
Do you get the perception that like people who do all the conferences and they're all the faces
of technology? Don't you get since they don't really do anything? Like they literally never
build anything ever anymore? I don't want to be that person. Yeah. Definitely. And do you want to
be that person? Are you at risk? I don't find I don't think I'm at risk of being that person.
Why? Why are you exempt? Because I don't that's not my full-time job. Like I still have to do
other stuff. But like, okay, are any of those people is it their full-time job? I feel like most
of the faces I'm talking about have actual jobs, don't they? You're talking about the
conference people that let us go to every conference and do the job. Yeah, like the people who talk,
I guess that's their job. Their job is dev rel. It's dev rel. I'm not a dev rel. So I don't
have to worry. I'm not going to become that person. That's what you're saying to me. Yeah, I don't
see you on that path at all. So I'm just going to kind of, it's like kind of weird for me to hear
that you're worried about that. Okay. No, that's good. Good to know. Or you got the one conference
and you're like, I've gotten to one conference. I'm going to another. I'm not even speaking. I'm
just going to. Exactly. You're like worried and not getting stuck into this world that you're like
barely, barely in. Does that make me a dark matter dev? No, dark matter dev is get stuff done.
That's the other side of it. Ouch, dax, ouch. First, you don't look at me.
You just like stare off to the side. Then you say, I don't get anything done.
You're just trying to make you feel awkward now. Look at that. Third, third bad thing in a row.
I'm not that one. I wasn't trying to make you feel awkward. That was just awkward.
Oh, okay. Should we just in the podcast? No, no, no, hang on. Let me summarize this whole thing.
Whatever this was, you do work and you also spend time talking about it. And that's it.
That's it. That's it. There's no drama here. The dark matter dev thing is just like,
they just don't do the other thing. You can do both. I'm sure you can do only one or the other,
but I have a bunch of work I need to get done. And anything I talk about is from a conclusion
because I was doing a bunch of work. You don't think it's like a slippery slope that people think
this, they have good intentions, and then they end up just talking at all the conferences and
never working again? Yeah, I think so. But I think, I definitely rebalance my life
compared to where I was a while ago, but there's also less for me to do and improve on the just
doing work side. I've just gotten good enough where like, if I spent all my time doing that,
I'm like improving, I don't know, like 1% every month or whatever. But then on this side of
things, like communicating ideas and all that, like I feel like I can improve 20% a month if I do it.
So yeah, for me, it's just like, I need something, I needed something new to work on and get better
at. So this was that thing. Are you taking suggestions? Because a teleprompter would be one. If you
would go and set that up, I think that's 20%. You could knock off this month, just immediately.
You're just trying to make it awkward. You're just stopping talking on purpose. Yeah, I guess
your perception of getting better, just buying a thing. It's true at your approach. Most of
everything I feel like I've gotten better at was just more money I spent. It's true. Let's go get
some work done. What do you say? Okay. Maybe. See you. All right, see you next.